---
title: "v5.1.0: Sharing is caring"
linkTitle: "v5.1.0"
date: 2021-03-03
description: >
   Butler 5.1.0 has been relased on GitHub. 
author: Göran Sander ([@themountaindude](https://twitter.com/themountaindude))
---

## Sharing is caring

The main change in in this release is the addition of telemetry.

Yup - starting with 5.1 Butler will call home.
At least if you let it.

So... the question is then... how does it work and should you allow it?

### How

Software that reports back to some home base can be a bad thing, but it can also be a very good thing.  
In the case of Butler **only anonymized information is included in telemetry messages**.

Ptarmigan Labs just won't know which telemetry data came from what Qlik Sense servers.  

Is this *really* true?  
Yup. Not even the IP addresses of the server sending the telemetry data is kept.  

The process is basically this:

1. A telemetry message arrives from somewhere. The message itself contains no information that can identify the sender, nor does it contain any sensitive data.
2. The message's content is stored in a database. Nothing else.
3. You can request your data to be deleted in the future, if need be. But only if you tell Ptarmigan Labs which data is yours - as they have no way of knowing this themselves.

A full description of what data is included in telemetry messages is found [here](/docs/about/telemetry/).

### Why

Good question.

It's pretty simple really: If the Butler developers know which features are used most and on what OSs and types of hardware/VMs etc Butler runs, they can do a much better job when it comes to refining those popular features and supporting the most commonly used platforms.  
That's it - telemetry is 100% about making future Butler versions better.

On the other hand: If you turn off telemetry the Butler developers will be in the dark as to what features are actually used and on what kinds of operating systems and computers.

Telemetry is a way to make future Butler versions as good and relevant as possible - and it's up to YOU whether it happens or not.

## Go get it!

The [changelog](https://github.com/ptarmiganlabs/butler/blob/master/changelog.md) has all the details.

Butler releases are [available on GitHub](https://github.com/ptarmiganlabs/butler/releases).
